Evaluator types navigation (#1954)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/code-evaluator-ui.mdx

---
title: How to define a code evaluator
sidebarTitle: Code evaluator
---

Code evaluators in the [LangSmith UI](https://smith.langchain.com) allow you to write custom evaluation logic using Python or TypeScript code directly in the interface. Unlike [LLM-as-a-judge](/langsmith/llm-as-judge) evaluators that use a model to evaluate outputs, code evaluators use deterministic logic you define.

<Note>

> To define code evaluators programmatically using the SDK, refer to [How to define a code evaluator (SDK)](/langsmith/code-evaluator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define code evaluators programmatically using the SDK, refer to [How to define a code evaluator (SDK)](/langsmith/code-evaluator-sdk).
```

</Note>

## Step 1. Create the evaluator

1. Create an evaluator from one of the following pages in the [LangSmith UI](https://smith.langchain.com):
    - In the playground or from a dataset: Select the **+ Evaluator** button.

>     - From a tracing project: Select **Add rules**, configure your rule and select **Apply evaluator**.

Reviewer: since this page is offline evals focused, can remove "From a tracing project" section

> 1. Select **Create custom code evaluator** from the evaluator type options.

Reviewer: same here, i'd just call it Code Evaluator and we can simplify it in the UI too

## Step 2. Write your evaluator code

In the **Add Custom Code Evaluator** page, define your evaluation logic using Python or TypeScript.

Your evaluator function must be named `perform_eval` and should:

1. Accept `run` and `example` parameters.
1. Access data via `run['inputs']`, `run['outputs']`, and `example['outputs']`.

> 1. Return a dictionary with your metric name as the key.

Reviewer: I would add some more detail here like we have [here](https://langchain-5e9cc07a-preview-evalua-1765997700-bf47ab2.mintlify.app/langsmith/online-evaluations-code#:~:text=Feedback(s)%20Dictionary,is%20not%20silly.) 
```suggestion
1. Return a dictionary where each key is a metric name and each value is the score for that metric. Each key represents a piece of feedback you want to return. For example, {"correctness": 1, "silliness": 0} would create two pieces of feedback on the run. 
```

### Function signature

```python
def perform_eval(run, example):
    # Access the data
    inputs = run['inputs']
    outputs = run['outputs']
    reference_outputs = example['outputs']  # Optional: reference/expected outputs

    # Your evaluation logic here
    score = ...

    # Return a dict with your metric name
    return {"metric_name": score}
```

### Example: Exact match evaluator

```python
def perform_eval(run, example):
    """Check if the answer exactly matches the expected answer."""
    actual = run['outputs']['answer']
    expected = example['outputs']['answer']

    is_correct = actual == expected
    return {"exact_match": is_correct}
```

> ### Example: Concision evaluator

Reviewer: not a realistic use case, so i would remove

```python
def perform_eval(run, example):
    """Score how concise the answer is. 1 is most concise, 5 is least concise."""
    answer = run['outputs']['answer']
    score = min(len(answer) // 1000, 4) + 1

    return {"concision_score": score}
```

### Example: Input-based evaluator

```python
def perform_eval(run, example):
    """Check if the input text contains toxic language."""
    text = run['inputs'].get('text', '').lower()
    toxic_words = ["idiot", "stupid", "hate", "awful"]

    is_toxic = any(word in text for word in toxic_words)
    return {"is_toxic": is_toxic}
```

## Step 3. Configure the evaluator

### Name and description

Give your evaluator a clear name that describes what it measures (e.g., "Exact Match", "Concision Score").

> ### Feedback configuration

Reviewer: remove this section, feedback is implicitly defined as part of whatever is returned by the function
